---
title: Experiences at MWCCDC 2023
author: Collin Dewey
date: '2021-09-05'
slug: MWCCDC-2023
description: "My personal experiences in the 2023 Season of MWCCDC"
---
---
# MWCCDC
---

During the weekend of March 17-18th 2022, with a team of school peers, I got to participate in a Blue Team/Red Team competition called CCDC. Specifically, this was the Erich J. Spengler Midwest Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition - or MWCCDC. Paraphrasing from a description by the [National CCDC](https://nationalccdc.org/index.php/competition/about-ccdc/mission)

---

The CCDC competition involves student teams taking on administrative and protective roles for a simulated commercial network, with the goal of maintaining availability of services while defending against attacks from a red team, whose goal is to take the services down and break into the servers. Teams are scored based on their performance in both uptime, as well as how deeply red team infiltrates, and responses to business requests.

---
# Preparation
---

This competition requires a wealth of knowledge about various topics, specifically about Windows, Linux, and various Firewalls. All three topics are on their own, a lot to know in-depth knowledge about. CCDC has a limit of the number of members that can make up a team, at 8 people. Our 8 people were distributed into 4 different subgroups. 1 person managed firewalls, 2 people responded to bussiness memos, 2 people handled Windows, and 3 people managed Linux. I personally like Linux, I'm always learning but after using Linux as my main OS for 7 years, I think I've got a good grasp on the basics. However, I'm not going to remember every single command I want to run. Thankfully, teams are allowed to bring in an approved GitHub repo, along with physical papers. Phones are secured away during the competition, and teams are not allowed to contact non-team members for advice, although the internet is at the team's disposal.

---
# Written Notes
---

Before this CCDC season, our team had a document that contained information and research done by former team members compiled into one document. This document was initially a giant Microsoft Word document, but at some point was converted to Markdown by a former member turned CCDC Red Teamer [Ap3x](https://github.com/Ap3x). Ap3x also has blog posts about CCDC if you want to read more. There was one large issue about this document however, it was severely outdated. Everything about Windows Server was Windows Server 2003 or 2008. The entire document acted like SystemD, the Linux init manager, didn't exist. Our initial strategy included unplugging the router and tracing wires to make sure that extra devices weren't plugged in, whereas in competition we were 

---
# Nix, Pandoc, and GitHub Actions
---


---
# Password List
---


---
